TRIPLANETARY SCENARIOS

============================================
FIRST EDITION SCENARIOS

SCENARIOS

---------------------
GRAND TOUR, 2037 A.D. 
A Multi-Player Scenario
	Gesichtskreis Sternschiffbau, A.G. offers a grand prize of 
royalties and remuneration to the winner of its decenniel Grand Tour 
competition.
	Each contestant receives 1 Corvette.
	All ships start on Terra. Each ship must pass through at least 
one gravity hex of each heavenly body with full gravity, and return to 
(land on) Terra.
	The first ship to achieve the above wins. If several ships 
achieve the above at the same time (in the same number of Turns), the 
player with the lowest fuel consumption wi ns.
	Fuel is available at Venus, Mars, Terra, and Callisto only. 
Any ship in orbit at one of these planets for one Turn is refueled.
	The Combat rule applies. However, a player automatically loses 
if he attacks another ship and:
	1) He is in detector range of any planet or moon.
	2) He is in detector range of a third ship.
	3) His victim survives to return to any planet.
	
------
ESCAPE 
A 2-Player Scenario
	The Pilgrims, a small but righteous minority oppressed by the 
First Citizen and his infamous Thought Police, have secretly prepared 
a Transport and 2 decoys to enable them to escapeto the Stars! The 
Transport is equipped with Long Sleep capsules, and it is only necessary 
that the ship leave the Solar System with enough fuel to allow maneuver 
and decelleration at Journey’s End. But first, they must elude the 
Enforcers.
	The Pilgrims receive 3 Transports (white on blue ships) placed 
on Terra.
	The Enforcers receive 1 Corvette in orbit around Terra, and a 
corsair in orbit around Venus. (Use the white on black ships.)
	The Pilgrim secretly designates one transport as containing the 
Fugitives; the other two are decoys operated by aspiring martyrs. 
Beginning at Day 1, Pilgrim may launch his ships from Terra in any manner 
he wishes. Ships still on Terra not yet launched may not be attacked.
	The Pilgrims win a decisive victory if the fugitive ship exits 
the board beyond Jupiter with sufficient fuel remaining to make a dead 
stop, plus 1. He may be disabled.
	The Pilgrims win a marginal victory if they exit as above, with 
less fuel than required.
	The Pilgrims win a moral victory if they are destroyed, but 
take at least 1 Enforcer with them.
	The Enforcers win a decisive victory if they capture the Pilgrims 
(loot their ship) and return safely to a planet.
	The Enforcers win a marginal victory if the Pilgrims are destroyed.
	Mines and torpedoes may not be used. Pilgrim ships have no 
armament, but may ram.
	Decoy ships are revealed only when looted, Otherwise, all ship 
identities remain secret until the game ends.
	No time limit.

---------
LATERAL 7 
A 2-Player Scenario
	A Liner carrying industrial magnates to an interplanetary mining 
conference at the Ganymede Colony is outbound from Venus. Other 
considerations (not shown) prevent the Navy from escorting this ship, 
but one Dreadnaught on station in the Belt is available to respond to 
distress calls.
	The relatively recent pirate menace has been raiding the rich 
Trans-Belt shipping lanes from an unlocated base in the Asteroids. 
Capture and subsequent ransom of the manifest of the Liner would virtually 
guarantee doubling the pirate fleet.
	The Pirate receives 2 Corsairs and 1 Corvette, plus 9 dummy 
counters. (Use White on Black for the Pirate, Black on Red for dummies.)
	The Navy has 1 Dreadnaught (red, white, and blue) and 3 dummies 
(non-dreadnaught red, white, and blue). The Liner is Blue and White.
	The Liner is placed on Venus. The Dreadnaught and 3 Navy dummies 
are placed in asteroid hexes in the Belt. inverted. The Pirate then 
places his 3 ships and 9 dummies inverted on any unoccupied asteroid 
hexes. All ships begin at zero velocity.
	The Dreadnaught may not move until a pirate is detected by a 
planet, or a ship
	Non-pirates are eliminated if they enter the special asteroids 
adjacent to Clandestine.
	Because ship sailings are published, the pirate knows the location 
of the Liner. Each pirate, on its first acceleration, must remove 3 
dummies. The Dreadnaught, on its first acceleration, removes its dummies. 
Dummies may not move or detect.
	The Pirate base is Clandestine. There are unlimited mines available 
there. Each pirate Corsair begins with 1 mine on board. The Dreadnaught 
begins with one mine and one torpedo, with an unlimited supply of both 
available on Mars.
	The Pirate wins decisively if he loots the Liner, destroys the 
Dreadnaught, and returns the ship with the loot to Clandestine. He wins 
a tactical victory by looting the Liner.
	The Navy wins decisively by getting the Liner to Ganymede, and 
destroying one pirate. He wins a tactical victory by getting the Liner 
to Ganymede.
	If the Liner is destroyed, both sides lose.

------------------
INTERPLANETARY WAR 
A 2-Player Scenario
	Terra’s colonies have labored long under the seeming yoke of 
oppression and now are rising to declare themselves as equals to the 
Mother world. The exhausted home planet, after giving the best metals 
from her breast, the prime of humanity from her womb, sees this as 
impertinence of the worst sort. Properly convinced, the rebels will be 
made to return to the Status Quo.
	Terrans: Choose a fleet from Terran (red, white, and blue) ships,
totalling no more than 50 combat points. Treat a 1D as 1/2 point.
	This fleet may be deployed on or in orbit around Terra, Luna, 
Mercury, or Venus, or in space, stationary. Ships may not be placed less 
than 5 hexes from any asteroid hex, or less than 10 hexes from Mars. 
Ships may not be placed beyond the belt.
	Deploy first. All ships may carry a full load of mines, torpedoes, 
and nukes. Nukes are discussed later.
	Choose a merchant fleet of no more than 5 combat points (blue 
and white). This must be placed on Terra.
	Rebels: Choose a fleet (red and black, and black and white) 
totalling no more than 30 combat points. Deploy these ships on or orbiting 
Callisto, Ganymede, lo, or Mars, stationary in space, or on any asteroid 
hex. Ships may not be placed sunward of the belt.
	Each player receives 1 replacement point per planet held per 10 
turns, on that tenth turn. One replacement point may be used to build 1 
combat point’s worth of ship, or 2 1D points of transport. Any type ship 
may be built. Points may be accumulated.
	Replacement points may also be used to build Nukes. qne point buys 
one nuke. Nukes weigh 20, and behave as mines, except
	a) They totally destroy any ships in the hex they expiocie in, or
	b) They devestate the planetary hexside they explode on.
	Guns attacking nukes fire (always) at 2:1. A disabled nuke cannot 
function. Nukes deactivate after 5 turns.
	Terra’s home base in Terra. The Rebels home base in Callisto. 
All replacement ships are built at the player’s home base.
	All Terran bases must be visited by a Transport from Earth every 
30 turns, or the unvisited base dies from lack of supply. Note that 6 
Transports must visit Venus every 30 turns, or at least one base will die.
	A base may be captured by landing a ship on it, if unoccupied 
by a ship. Occupied bases may not be captured. Bases may be destroyed 
only by Nukes. A player must occupy all existing bases on a planet for 
that planet to count toward replacement points.
	Terra wins if she eliminates the rebel threat. All military 
	vessels of the Rebel fleet must be destroyed.
	If more than half the Rebel bases are destroyed, the best Terra 
can achieve is a draw.
	The Rebel succeeds if he places 2 Nukes on different Terran hex 
sides, and 1 Nuke on Luna.

--------------
ALIEN INVASION
	Swooping out of Taurus came the advanced, but incredibly 
incomprehensible, and paradoxically barbaric ursinoid race called only ‘Pan'
	Terran:	Choose a fleet of any 5 ships (red, white, and blue) and 
deploy them anywhere sunward of the belt. Choose any 2 ships every 5 
turns as reinforcements to be activated on Terra. These ships may be 
previously destroyed ship& Terran replacements continue so long as one 
Terran base is still in Terran hands.
	Pan: Take 6 Transports for use as hyperspace shuttles (blue and 
white). Using the shuttle rule, bring in all ships possible and/or 
necessary. (Use red and black)
	Each side starts with 2 nukes on board any ships capable of 
carrying them. Each side receives 2 nukes every 10 turns, on Terra, or 
available for shuttling in. These may be accumulated.
	Hyperspace Shuttles
	The Pan have a hyperspace drive, but it’s size and complexity 
require its installation on a shuttle craft, which can transport several 
ships between systems over a period of time.
	Use commercial transports as shuttles. Each shuttle may carry 
1 ship.
	The player places each shuttle, with cargo, on a clear space hex, 
at least 3 hexes from a planet. Each shuttle is displaced. Roll a die to 
determine direction of scatter. (1=Sunward, 2, 3, clockwise, etc.) Then 
roll a die to determine the number of hexes displacement. The one place 
a shuttle may never go is the hex it was aimed at.
	Shuttles arrive at zero velocity. More than one shuttle arriving 
at the same hex causes all to be disabled for 3 turns, including cargo. 
Shuttles may jump home again, if undisabled, on the next turn after 
arrival.
	Waves of shuttles may not arrive closer than every 10 turns.
	Pan wins decisively by occupying at least 3 Terran hexsides, 
and destroying the rest.
	Pan wins marginally by destroying all Terran bases, and completely 
controlling 4 of 6 hexsides of Mars or Venus, with the remainder on the 
specific planet destroyed.
	Terra wins decisively if she destroys at least 5 shuttles, or 
reduces the total Alien combat points on the board to less than 20. 
Count 1 D as 1/2 point.
	Terra wins marginally if the above conditions are met, but 3 
or more hexsides of Terra have been devastated.
	
-----------	
PROSPECTING
	Civilization has always depended, somehow, on people just finding 
the things it needs. Now, the farthest frontiers, out in the asteroid belt 
beyond Mars, provide a place for men to “find” the nickel, copper, platinum, 
even C-T shards of the shattered former fifth planet.
	Each player begins with 25 kilocredits. The following costs 
and weights apply:

Transport			10 kilo credits
Packet, Corvette		40 kilo credits
Tanker				10 kilo credits
Fuel, per point			1 kilo credit
Automated Mining Equipment	5 kilo credits
Employees, 
1 crew for a mine, per turn	1/5 kilo credits
Special Radar			30 kilo credits
Pseudo-magnetic Grapples	40 kilo credits

	Automated mining equipment requires 10 cargo points. Such equipment 
produces 1 kilo credit of ore per turn, and stores it. Any ship may 
pick this ore up, and sell it at ceres. One kilo credit’s worth of ore 
requires 1 cargo point of space on a ship.
	All accounts are cash in the bank at ceres. All purchases, sales, 
etc. occur there. Employees must be paid 2 kilo credits per crew in 
advance, and accounts caught up every time the player touches at Ceres. 
	The advantage of a live crew is that someone else cannot steal 
the ore from a manned mine.
	Special radar allows entrance to the special asteroids around 
Clandestine.
	Any ship, passing through an asteroid hex at a speed of 1, may 
analyze the content of the asteroids. Roll a die. A “6” indicates high 
grade ore. Mark the hex to indicate a claim. Mark other hexes to indicate 
their lack of value. Worthless hexes may always he re-examined. Roll the 
die twice. Two “sixes” indicates discovery of high qrade ore.
	A player may hire himself out, as crew to another player. Rich 
players may give “grubstakes,” go into the transport and shipping business, 
turn pirate.
	If, when rolling the die to discover ore, a “1” is rolled, roll 
the die again. If another "1” is rolled, the ship had encountered C-T 
(Contra-Terrene, or Anti-matter), and is disabled for 4 turns. C-T may 
only be handled by a ship equipped with pseudo-magnetic grapples. Such 
ships are also not affected (disabled) when passing thru a C-T hex. C-T 
is produced one piece per turn. One piece may be carried in the special 
ship. It sells for 100 kilocred its at Ceres.
	At any given point, the richest player wins.
	You may find this scenario very cumbersome. Beware.
	
-----------	
RETRIBUTION
	The answer, as we have learned and forgotten every generation 
since Adam is not to run from the despot, but to overthrow him. The 
whispered story of the fugitive Pilgrims escape gave heart to the oppressed 
in the system. “And they smote him as a blacksmith smites an anvil.”
	The enforcers receive 3 Corsairs and 1 Frigate (use black and 
white). Place the Frigate on Luna, and the Corsairs in orbit around any 
3 planets or moons.
	The sons of liberty receive up to 10 Corvettes in dribbles. A new 
Corvette may not appear until the previous one has accomplished its mission, 
or the Corvette is destroyed. A Corvette may be placed on any planet. The 
second and subsequent Corvettes may appear on any planet.
	Corvettes fly one of 2 missions. It may fly to and stop at 
Clandestine, for inclusion in the Freedom Fleet, or it may attack Terra. 
Each Corvette which crashes into earth, while undisabled, sufficiently 
scares the first citizen that he withdraws a ship into earth orbit. Each 
successfully crashed Corvette requires another ship to withdraw to protective 
earth orbit. These ships may not venture (voluntarily) beyond detector 
range of Terra and Luna.
	At any time, the sons of liberty inay cease sending Corvettes, 
and create the “Freedom Fleet” at Clandestine.
	Total the combat strengths of all Corvettes successfully arrived 
at Clandestine, and double it. The sons of liberty then choose a fleet 
of any ships equal to or less than that total. Treat 1 D as half a point.
	Enforcers may not enter the special asteioids around Clandestine, 
or they are destroyed. Others treat those hexes as clear.
	The sons of liberty win by destroying the enforcer fleet and freeing 
Terra. The enforcers win by staying alive. They get promotions and extra 
leave in Paris for destroying the rebellion (i.e. destroying all Corvettes 
and the Freedom Fleet).

------
PIRACY
	Whenever Man, in the fulfillment of his destiny, ventures beyond 
his previous bounds, there are self-seeking, unscrupulous men who will 
stand in the way. Sometimes cloaking themselves in pseudo-righteousness, 
sometimes honestly dishonest, these men still have the same end in mind, 
riches.
	So, in he early 21st Century, the System’s burgeoning economy 
is threatened by Pirates striking from a secret base in the Asteroid belt.
	Patrol:		Receives a Dreadnaught and a Corsair on Luna.
	Merchant:	Receives 2 Transports, on Terra.
	Pirate:		Receives 2 Corsairs on Clandestine.
	The Patrol sets up first, preplotting patrol circuits in the 
inner System (Terra, Mars, Venus, Sol) and the outer System (Callisto, 
Ganymede, Callisto). Patrol ships may not leave these circuits until a 
Pirate is detected.
	Merchant announces the destinations of his two Transports. Once 
a cargo has been delivered to a planet, it may not receive another cargo 
until all other planets have received a cargo. Exception, Sol and Jupiter 
are disregarded as they are uninhabited, and Transports returning to Terra 
may always carry cargo to Terra.
	Pirate begins on Clandestine.
	The Pirate receives 2 points for each ship he loots. Disregard 
cargo capacities, assume he takes the cream of the cargo. Any disabled 
military ship he boards, other than Dreadnaught or Torch, may be converted 
to Pirate when it becomes undisabled. Commercial vessels he captures may 
be converted to Pirate packets upon return to Clandestine. The Pirate may 
buy ships on Ganymede at the Patrol price.
	The Merchant receives 2 points for each cargo delivered to a planet. 
He loses 4 points for each Transport destroyed. New transports may be 
purchased, on Terra, for 8 points.
	The Patrol receives a number of points equal to the combat point 
strength of any destroyed pirates. The Patrol may buy new ships on Luna 
at a cost of 2 points equals 1 combat point.
	Patrol’s Posse Comitatus Regulation, Sec. Ill, para 14, sub para jj. 
Revised Directives: Transports may not schedule takeoffs to shadow patrol 
ships. The Transports traveling within 4 hexes of a Patrol ship is fined 
1 point every 10 turns.
	If the merchant’s point total goes to zero, the Pirate wins, 
marginally.
	If the Pirate scores 8 points in a cycle, he wins decisively. 
Count a cycle as the period during which all planets receive at least 
one cargo.
	If the Merchant expands his fleet to 3 times the Pirates, or 6 ships, 
whichever is greater, he wins.
	If the Patrol destroys the Pirate fleet, he wins.

============================================
SECOND EDITION SCENARIOS

TABLE 2. PRICES
Ship		Combat	Fuel	Cargo	Cost
Type		Str	Cap	Cap	(MCr)
Transport	1D	10	50	10
Tanker		1D	50	0	10
Liner		2D	10	50	50
Corvette	2	20	5	40
Corsair		4	20	10	80
Frigate		8	20	40	150
Dreadnaught	15	15	50	600
Torch		8	special	10	400
Orbital Base	16	0	special	1000

Equipment		Cost
Type		Weight	(MCr)	Remarks
Fuel		—	1	stored at bases.
Mine		10	10	exploding type.
Torpedo		20	20
Nuke		20	300
Scanners	—	30	detect CT shards.
PM Grapples	40	40	handle CT shards.
Automated Mine	10	5	digsore.
Robot Guards	10	50	protects mines.
Ore		1	varies
CT Shard	10	varies

-------------------
GRAND TOUR, 2037 AD
A multi-player scenario.
	Gesichtkreis Sternschiffbau, A.G. offers a grand prize of
royalties and remuneration to the winner of its decennial Grand
Tour competition. This event is the high point of each decade for
scores of space-racing devotees, as well as the top ship designers
and pilots of the Solar System.
	Ships: Each racer receives one corvette, at Terra.
	Special Rules: Fuel is available only at bases on Terra, Venus,
Mars, and Callisto. Fuel is available to anyone. Combat is allowed.
	Victory: Each ship must pass through at least one gravity hex
of each astral body with full gravity and return to land on Terra.
The first ship to do so wins. If several travel the same circuit in
the same time, the minimum fuel consumption wins.
	Variant: After several games of this scenario, players will
become familiar with optimum routes. Instead, announce a
required route just prior to the race. Examples: astral bodies
must be arrived at in alphabetical order; astral bodies must be
visited in order of their size; astral bodies must be visited in
their order from the sun.

------
ESCAPE
A short two-player scenario.
	The Pilgrims, a small but righteous minority oppressed by the
First Citizen and his infamous Thought Police, have secretly
prepared a transport and two decoys for an escape to the stars!
The transport is equipped with Long Sleep capsules and it is only
necessary that the ship leave the Solar System with enough fuel
remaining to allow maneuver and deceleration at journey’s end.
But first, they must elude the Enforcers.
	Ships: The Pilgrims receive three transports (white on blue)
on Terra. The Enforcers receive one corvette in orbit around
Terra and a corsair in orbit around Venus (white on black counters).
	Special Rules: The Pilgrims secretly designate one transport to
contain the fugitives; the other two are decoys operated by
aspiring martyrs. Beginning on Day 1, the Pilgrim may launch his
ships from Terra in any manner he wishes. Ships still on Terra
may not be attacked. Decoy ships are revealed only if the Enforcer 
matches course and inspects the ship in question. Other
wise, ship identities are revealed only at the end of the game.
	Mines and torpedoes are not available to either player. The
Pilgrims may ram. Only Terra, Venus, and lo have bases.
	All bases on the map belong to the Enforcers. Planetary
defenses are not operating.
	There is no time limit to this scenario.
	Victory: Several levels of victory are possible based on the
game results.
	The Pilgrims win a decisive victory if the fugitive ship exits the
board beyond Jupiter with sufficient fuel remaining to make a
dead stop, plus one fuel point. The Pilgrim transport may be
disabled.
	The Pilgrims win a marginal victory if they exit as indicated
for a decisive victory but have less fuel than required.
	The Pilgrims win a moral victory if they are destroyed or cap
tured but destroy at least one Enforcer ship in the process.
	The Enforcers win a decisive victory if they capture the
Pilgrims (loot their transport) and return safely to a base.
	The Enforcers win a marginal victory if they destroy the
transport carrying the Pilgrims.

---------
LATERAL 7
A short two-player scenario.
	A liner carrying industrial magnates to an interplanetary
mining conference at the colony on Ganymede is outbound
from Venus. Other pressing considerations prevent the Navy from
escorting this ship, but one dreadnaught (the Tycho Brahe,
number 101) is on station in the Belt to respond to possible
distress calls. Recently, pirates have been menacing the rich
trans-Belt shipping lanes with raids from their unapproachable
base at Clandestine. If the pirates can capture and ransom the
passengers on the liner, they will be able to double the size of
their fleet.
	Ships: The pirates receive two corsairs and one corvette
(white on black), plus nine dummy counters (red, white, and blue
corvettes and corsairs). The Navy receives one dreadnaught (red,
white, and blue), three dummies (red, white, and blue frigates),
and a liner (white on blue).
	Special Rules: The liner is placed on Venus. The dreadnaught
and three dummies are placed in any asteroid hexes, inverted to
conceal their identities. The pirate then places his three ships and
nine dummies in any unoccupied asteroid hexes. All ships begin
at zero velocity.
	Because ship sailings are published, the pirate knows the
location of the liner. Each pirate ship, on its first acceleration,
must remove three dummies. The dreadnaught, on its first accel
eration, must remove its three dummies. The dreadnaught,
however, may not move until a pirate is detected by a ship or a
base.
	The pirate base is Clandestine, and pirates treat the special
(blue) asteroids surrounding it as clear space. Mines, fuel, and
minor maintenance are available at that base for the pirates. Each
pirate corsair begins the game with one mine on board.
	The Navy has bases on Mars, Terra, and Callisto. The dread-
naught begins with one mine and one torpedo on board.
	Victory: The pirate wins by matching courses with the liner,
transferring the passengers, and taking them to Clandestine. He
wins decisively if the dreadnaught is also destroyed. The Navy
wins if the liner makes it to Ganymede. The win is decisive if a
pirate ship is also destroyed.
	If the passengers of the liner, while on the liner or after
transfer to another ship, are destroyed, both players lose.
	Variant: The liner may begin at Terra instead of Venus.

----
NOVA
A short three-player scenario.
	Even the survival of the race can be subordinated to petty
politics, which is perhaps as it should be. Consider this: If survival
is for the strong, do the weak have any right to live?
	This scenario is intended for three players: The American-
dominated WestBloc, the Communist EastBloc, and the Alien
invaders.
	Ships: Both the EastBloc and the WestBloc players select
fleets using the combat strength point system and an allowance
of 50 points each. EastBloc should use red and black counters;
WestBloc should use red, white, and blue counters. The Alien
invader receives a fleet of four corsairs (use white and black
counters).
	Special Rules: EastBloc and WestBloc must roll dice to deter
mine where their colonies are and decide which parts of Terra
they rule. The EastBloc selects three adjacent Terran hexsides; the
WestBloc receives the other three. The WestBloc then selects one
Luna hex side as a moon colony; the EastBloc then selects any
other Luna hex side as its moon colony. Finally, each side rolls
one die to determine where their farther colony is located:
lVenus, 2=Mars, 3=Ceres, 4=Callisto, 5=Clandestine, and
6=Mercury. The colony has only one base somewhere on the
indicated location. If both sides roll the same number, both roll
again.
	After all EastBloc and WestBloc ships have been placed on
friendly bases, the Alien invader enters the map with its four
corsairs; they may enter at any point along the map edge closest
to Jupiter at a speed of one hex per turn.
	The Alien ships are suicide ships carrying Nova bombs. A ship
carrying Nova bombs automatically activates them when in
orbit around So!. One ship doing so is sufficient to destroy the
sun. Nova bombs do not use any cargo capacity.
	Resupply is available at friendly bases. EastBloc and WestBloc
bloc bases may be friendly if the owning player so decides. Alien
ships begin with a full load of mines.
	Victory: The EastBloc or the WestBloc wins by destroying the
last Alien ship. For this purpose, a ship is defined as destroyed
when it receives damage which inexorably will result in destruc
tion (i.e., a ship disabled and unable to avoid leaving the board).
	The Alien invader wins by successfully activating its Nova
bombs while in orbit around the sun.
	When one player wins, both others lose.
	Variants: Alter the size of the Alien fleet up or down depen
ding on the relative success of previous play.

-----------
RETRIBUTION
A short two-player scenario.
	The answer (as learned and forgotten by every generation since
Adam) is not to run from the tyrant but to depose him. The
whispered story of the brave pilgrims’ ordeal gave heart to the
oppressed of the solar system -
	Ships: The Enforcers receive two corsairs, each in orbit around
a different planet selected by the player, and one frigate on a base
at Luna (use black with white counters for sinister effect). The
Sons of Liberty receive a total of ten corvettes (red, white, and
blue counters) one at a time. The next corvette does not appear
until the previous has accomplished its mission or been destroyed.
Each corvette may appear at any base except Luna, Ceres, or
Terra.
	Special Rules: Corvettes for the Sons of Liberty may fly one
of two missions: A flight to Clandestine to help in the building of
the Freedom fleet or a suicidal attack on Terra.
	Each corvette which manages to crash into Terra (undisabled
at the time of the crash) sufficiently scares the First Citizen that
he reassigns one ship to the Terran Security Patrol. Ships on
Terran Security Patrol may not venture beyond detector range of
Terra or Luna until after the Freedom Fleet has been formed. If
three corvettes successfully crash into Terra, the three Enforcer
ships must be withdrawn into Terran Security Patrol.
	After all ten corvettes have appeared (or, at the Sons of
Liberty player’s option, at any time prior), all corvettes which
have travelled to and stopped at Clandestine may be converted
into the Freedom Fleet. Total the combat strength of all cor
vettes at Clandestine, and double it. Using the combat strength
point system, the Sons of Liberty now select a fleet using that
number of points. Torches may be selected.
	Because the Sons of Liberty own the base at Clandestine, they
treat the special asteroids as ordinary asteroids. Torpedoes and
mines are available only to the Enforcers, but also only from
Terran bases.
	The Enforcers have all bases on the map with the exception of
Clandestine, but only the bases at Terra and Luna have planetary
defenses.
	Victory: The Sons of Liberty win by destroying the Enforcer
fleet, and, as a result, freeing Terra. If the Enforcers hide, keeping
their ships grounded for twelve or more turns, then the Sons of
Liberty win is automatic.
	The Enforcers win by staying alive. They receive promotions
and extra leave in Paris if they put down the rebellion by des
troying the rebels. If the rebels are indecisive and ground their
fleet for at least twelve turns, the rebellion has failed and the
Enforcers win.

----------------
THE FLEET MUTINY
A short two-player scenario.
	There are two versions to this historical incident, the official
account, stating briefly that a small scattered band of dissidents,
misled by a fanatic maniac, attempted and failed an insurrection
in which certain fleet elements were to hold Terran cities for
ransom against the establishment of an autocratic socialist govern
ment.
	The other account, simply stated, is that misrule of the present
administration must end, and that the fleet itself will insure that
future governments more rightly respect the citizens rights and
the ruler’s responsibility.
	The two players involved represent the Empire and the Rebels.
	Ships: The Empire chooses a fleet of 12 ships and 2 orbital
bases (using red, white, and blue counters). These may be placed
anywhere on the map, but no ship may be closer than three hexes
to any other. Vessels in gravity hexes may be assumed to be in
orbit, and the direction of their orbits indicated.
	Special Rules: All bases are initially under the control of the
Empire. Planetary defenses are not in operation. Bases may be
captured.
	The Rebel player designates five ships and/or orbital bases, and
rolls a die for each one. On a roll of 6, the ship does not rebel.
	Planetary hexsides may be suppressed (for the remainder of
the game) by gunfire from a ship orbiting overhead. A ship sup
pressing a hexside may not fire at other targets that turn. Such
suppression is automatic if a ship fires.
	Victory: The Empire wins decisively if all Rebel ships and
bases are eliminated and fewer than three Terran hexsides have
been suppressed. The win is marginal if exactly three Terran hex-
sides have been suppressed.
	The Rebel wins decisively if he suppresses at least four Terran
hex sides. If he does not win decisively, he loses.
	Variant: Increase or decrease the size of the fleet initially.
Place the fleet elements on the map, but inverted so that the
identities of the ships are concealed from the Rebel player.

------------------
INTERPLANETARY WAR
A long two-player scenario.
	The Terran colonies have labored long under the seeming yoke
of oppression and now are rising to declare themselves equals to
mother Terra. The exhausted home world, after giving the best
metals from her breast, the prime of humanity from her womb,
sees this as an impertinence of the worst sort. The cross-purposes
of these factions can only be resolved by WAR!
	Ships: The Terran player selects a fleet of ships using the
MegaCredit system and an allowance of MCr1600 (using the red,
white, and blue counters). Terran ships may be placed on (or in
orbit around) Terra, Luna, and Venus, or stationary in space
within detector range of those worlds.
	The Rebel player selects a similar fleet using the MegaCredit
system and an allowance of MCr1000 (using the red and black
counters). Rebel ships may be placed on (or in orbit around)
Callisto (the Rebel home world), Io, Ganymede, and Mars, or
stationary in space within detector range of those worlds.
	In addition to ships, mines, torpedoes, and nukes may be
purchased by the players and stockpiled on ships or on bases.
These stockpiles must be noted. Fuel is available free at bases;
it need not be purchased.
	Each player holds worlds which can produce replacement
spacecraft and ordnance. Each base generates MCrO.1 per turn;
this sum may be accumulated and spent as soon as enough is
available to use.
	The Rebel player can use and spend his MegaCredits freely;
they are considered transmitted to Callisto without problem. The
Terran player must physically transport his MegaCredits to
Terra before they may be used. Further, they may only be
transported in commercial ships; each MegaCredit is considered
to require one ton of cargo space in the ship.
	Planets may not be captured, but bases may be destroyed
by detonating nukes on their hexsides. If all bases on a planet are
destroyed, all MegaCredits on the planet are also destroyed. If
any bases remain the MegaCredits remain intact.
	Victory: The Terran player wins decisively if the Rebel fleet
is destroyed. That victory is reduced to marginal if any Terran
hexside has been devastated.
	The Rebel player wins if three or more Terran hex sides and
one Luna hex side have been devastated.

-----------
PROSPECTING
A long multi-player scenario.
	Civilization has always depended upon the free enterprise
spirit to provide it with the trappings of wealth. Now, on the
farthest reaches of the Solar System, the asteroid belt is the new
frontier: the source of untold riches and untold dangers. The
rarities of Terra are commonplace in the belt: copper, uranium,
platinum, pirates; all flourish in the lawless gravel of the belt.
	Ships: Each player begins the scenario with MCr25. With that,
ships and equipment (including fuel) must be purchased.
	Special Rules: Any ship may prospect for ore by passing
through an asteroid hex at a speed of one. Two dice are rolled: on
the first roll, a 6 indicates that ore is present (mark the hex 0 if
ore is present; X is not); on the second roll, a 1 indicates the ship
has encountered a CT (Contra-Terrene) shard. Shards are rem
nants of the planet Vulcan, the world which shattered long ago to
form the asteroid belt. If the ship is equipped with PM grapples,
the shard may be picked up and sold; otherwise, it explodes, the
ship is disabled for four turns, and the shard disappears. Each hex
may only be prospected once.
	Ore may be sold at Ceres or at Luna. When a shipload of ore is
offered for sale, roll one die. If at Ceres, subtract 2 from the roll
(but the result may never be less than 1); if at Luna, do not
modify the roll. The result is the price (in MCr) per ton of ore
offered.
	CT shards sell for MCr100 at Ceres or MCr300 at Luna.
	Victory: Decide on a game length (perhaps 120 days to begin)
before the game. The person with the most money wins.

