Godfire is an interesting game and has it merits. It has what I would
call several problems. 

The first and foremost is that it tries much to hard to be so innovative
that it goes right over the top. The most over the top part of the
design in the 3d system. Having 11 levels has been found to be quite
excessive. My gaming group has done what we call the impossible and
remade the map. It is the same in hexes but only has 5 levels. This is a
significant improvement in our belief. We put all the planets in the
same hexes at either +1 or -1 as they refereed to the original map. Now
for most people this is to much of a change to affect as it requires
quite a bit of work, but if you are willing it really makes the game
much easier and more fun to play. 

The main other problem we had with the game was the speed at which the
game got going. It took well over 10 turns for any real development as
the rules for development were so tricky. We tried several different
rules and changes. 

First was to allow ANY party type to develop economy. This lead to a lot
less changes in party's leading to a big savings in cash. 

Second we increased the tax level of both I regions. I-1's now produced
2 and I-2's produced 3. This made the progression more worth it. It now
becomes much easier to get an I-2, and players will see many more mixed
out worlds. 

These changes lead to an increase in the # of units in play which lead
to a much more brutal game, especially on the small map that we use.
Sometimes we used the old map with new systems or new map with old
systems (to lessen the amount of units.) 

Revolutions annoyed us a lot also but we realized that they are
important to the game. Their randomness is what got to us. So we made a
rule, we called it pre-emptive bribe. In a pre-emptive bribe a player
may pay 1-3 GB during a roll for switching parties. He/She must pay this
bribe before the roll and before determine which direction if switching
out of moderate. 

Each GB so spent adds ONE to the roll for switching. Spending 3 makes
revolution impossible. Pre-emptive Bribing is not counted against
spending as it is considered secret. You can not stop a revolt that
occurs because of a sudden drop in loyalty, only ones from attempted
party changes. 

An alternate rule that we feel is fun just for it's own use is getting
rid of the ability to raise the national loyalty with GB. Instead the
only way to raise a party's loyalty is to have a region come under
that's party control. You still must pay one for the party loosing
control or lose a level of party loyalty. 

We also play with Richard W. Smith's Trade rules. We always have
neutrals trade with all until attacked. Combined with our boosted
economies on the system cards this can make for a much faster and larger
game with many more fleets zooming around the galaxy. (We are pondering
making a map with 7 levels because with all the extra money our 5 level
map is getting awfully crowded quickly.) 

By Joe Lott
2003
