Warpwar Play by Email.  henry_cobb@yahoo.com $Id: wwpbem.txt,v 1.2
2005/06/03 20:15:51 hcobb Exp hcobb $

I'm refereeing a Campaign warpwar game so it's my rules and here they are.

The timetable is that players will sign up by June 5th, get their starting
systems by June 6th and have their first turn orders due by June 11th with
weekly turns thereafter.

Use the printed Warpwar rules along with Steve Jackson's campaign rules
http://grognard.com/variants/warpwar1.txt with the following
modifications.

The map is known ahead of time because all sides are assumed to have
invented telescopes centuries before the game starts and they can predict
mathematically where warp lines should be given the locations of the stars
in the skies.

Just for convenience sakes we'll use the Imperium map because everybody
will either own a physical copy or they can download a copy from this URL.

http://www.kentaurus.com/downloads/ip001.pdf (See page 5)

Ignore Altair, Luuru and Smade's Star.  And since that map doesn't include
hexes, movement is restricted to just warp lines.

The red planet boxes are secondary systems (Star types K5+ and M#) and only
worth 2d-4 build points (might be zero).  White planet boxes are primary
systems (Star types F#, G# and K0-4, except Sarpedon and Procyon which are
secondary systems for no good reason) worth 2d build points and they always
have defensive systemships at the start of the game.  Stars without system
boxes (Star types A# or Wd, i.e. Sirius) are worth no points.

Warplines require 4 movement points to use on the first turn of use and are
then considered surveyed and only require 1 movement point to use on all
later turns.

At the start of each players turn they lose control of any system (other
than their home system if no ships from any side are there) that they don't
have ships at and gain control of any uncontrolled systems they are the
only side to have ships at.

For example: Player B moves a massive starfleet to Player A's home system
and destroys all of the defending ships.  At the start of Player A's next
turn the system will become uncontrolled and all build point stockpiles
there will be lost.  At the start of Player B's next turn after that (as
long as his ships are the only ones there) he will gain control of the
uncontrolled system and start accumulating build points.

Any system that was controlled and then left uncontrolled and is not
visited by any players ships for at least one turn has a chance of
developing system defenses.  Roll one die and if the die roll is less than
or equal to the number of turns the system wasn't visited it will have
developed a defensive systemship when it is next visited.  Player's
homeworlds that are left uncontrolled and unvisited revert to the control
of the original player at the start of their turn.

Binary systems (two adjacent circles on the map) are treated as two
separate systems one MP apart, except that systemships can move between
them on a turn when they are not carried by warpships (but they still can
not choose the retreat option in combat).  Warpships that retreat from
combat must move to a system that is connected by warpline or the binary
partner of the current system.  Ships will retreat to a friendly controlled
system if any are attached to the current system in preference to systems
that are not friendly controlled.

Every ship must have at least one power drive factor at all times or it
explodes with no damage to any ship that it isn't carrying.

No ship may expend more power drive factors for warp movement or tactical
combat drive setting than its tech level plus six.  Ships can be built with
larger power drive units, but they can't use more than that amount of power
for movement.

Player's ships are assumed to stop all ships from other players that enter
their systems and engage them in combat before these ships have a chance to
move to the next system or drop any systemships, unless the defending
ships' orders state otherwise.  However if a ship does not stop a warpship
the moment it enters the system then it cannot change its mind once that
ship or group of ships starts using movement points to drop systemships
before combat and/or move on to the next system.

If after three combat rounds no damage has been inflicted on any of the
ships in a combat that wasn't blocked by shields then combat is over for
the moving player's turn in that system and any player there can engage the
other ships in that system in combat on any of their later turns or simply
load up any friendly systemships there and leave the system during their
own movement phase, but any other ships that enter that system on a later
movement phase can be stopped by the defending ships and brought to battle.

Ignore any special rules you see for "fighters", "shells", "armor",
"holds", etc.

Players can include combat orders for their ships (which can include
rolling dice) when they mail in their orders or they can choose to conduct
battles over Yahoo chats.

Players will start the game with 20 build points on their first turn and
then receive 10 build points at their home system every turn thereafter
plus the build point values for any other systems they control.  Note that
by the campaign rules build points may only be spent for construction at
the system that produces them and there is no way to carry BPs between
systems, but research expenditures are combined across the entire empire.

-HJC